docs/troubleshooting.md, before:

Troubleshooting Common Issues
===

<!-- toc -->

- [Using Podman with Kind while also having Docker Installed](#using-podman-with-kind-while-also-having-docker-installed)
- [Unknown Field "replacements"](#unknown-field-replacements)
- [PR changes are not Triggering Pipelines](#pr-changes-are-not-triggering-pipelines)
- [Setup Scripts or Pipeline Execution Fail](#setup-scripts-or-pipeline-execution-fail)
  * [Running out of Resources](#running-out-of-resources)
  * [Unable to Bind PVCs](#unable-to-bind-pvcs)
  * [Release Fails](#release-fails)
    + [Common Release Issues](#common-release-issues)

<!-- tocstop -->

# Using Podman with Kind while also having Docker Installed

If you have docker installed, Kind will try to use it by default, so if you want
it to use Podman, you can do that by creating the cluster with the following command:

```bash
KIND_EXPERIMENTAL_PROVIDER=podman kind create cluster --name konflux --config kind-config.yaml
```

# Unknown Field "replacements"

If you get the following error: `error: json: unknown field "replacements"`, while
executing any of the setup scripts, you will need to update your `kubectl`.

# PR changes are not Triggering Pipelines

Follow this procedure if you create a PR or make changes to a PR and a pipeline is not
triggered:

1. Confirm that events were logged to the smee channel. if not, verify your steps for
   setting up the GitHub app and installing the app to your fork repository.

2. Confirm that events are being relayed by the smee client: List the pods under the
   `smee-client` namespace and check the logs of the pod on the namespace. Those should
   have mentions of the channel events being forwarded to pipelines-as-code.

```bash
kubectl get pods -n smee-client
kubectl logs -n smee-client gosmee-client-<some-id>
```

3. If the pod is not there or the logs do not include the mentioned entries, confirm you
   properly set the **smee channel** on the smee-client manifest and that you deploy the
   manifest to your cluster.

```bash
kubectl delete -f ./smee/smee-client.yaml
<fix the manifests>
kubectl create -f ./smee/smee-client.yaml
```

**Note:** if the host machine goes to sleep mode, the smee client might stop responding
to events on the smee channel, once the host is up again. This can be addressed by
deleting the client pod and waiting for it to be recreated:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n smee-client
kubectl delete pods -n smee-client gosmee-client-<some-id>
```

4. Check the pipelines-as-code logs to see that events are being properly linked to the
   Repository resource. If you see log entries mentioning a repository resource cannot
   be found, compare the repository mentioned on the logs to the one deployed when
   creating the application and component resources. Fix the Repository resource manifest and redeploy it.

   **Note:** this should only be relevant if the application was onboarded manually
   (i.e. not using the Konflux UI).

```bash
kubectl get pods -n pipelines-as-code
kubectl logs -n pipelines-as-code pipelines-as-code-controller-<some-id>
<fix the manifests>
kubectl apply -f ./test/resources/demo-users/user/ns2/application-and-component.yaml
```

5. If the pipelines-as-code logs mention secret `pipelines-as-code-secret` is
   missing/malformed, make sure you created the secret for the GitHub app, providing
   values for fields `github-private-key`, `github-application-id` and `webhook.secret`
   for the app your created. If the secret needs to be fixed, delete it (see command
   below) and deploy it once more based on the Pipelines as Code
   [instructions](../README.md#enable-pipelines-triggering-via-webhooks).

```bash
kubectl delete secret pipelines-as-code-secret -n pipelines-as-code
```

6. On the PR page, type `/retest` on the comment box and post the comment. Observe the
   behavior once more.

# Setup Scripts or Pipeline Execution Fail

## Running out of Resources

If setup scripts fail or pipelines are stuck or tend to fail at relatively random
stages, it might be that the cluster is running out of resources.

That could be:

* Open files limit.
* Open threads limit.
* Cluster running out of memory.

For mitigation steps, consult the notes at the top of the
[cluster setup instructions](../README.md#bootstrapping-the-cluster).

As last resort, you could restart the container running the cluster node. If you do
that, you'd have to, once more, increase the PID limit for that container as explained
in the [cluster setup instructions](../README.md#bootstrapping-the-cluster).

To restart the container (if using Docker, replace `podman` with `docker`):

```bash
podman restart konflux-control-plane
```

**Note:** It might take a few minutes for the UI to become available once the container
is restarted.

## Unable to Bind PVCs
The `deploy-deps.sh` script includes a check to verify whether PVCs on the default
storage class can be bind. If volume claims are unable to be fulfilled, the script will
fail, displaying:

```bash
error: timed out waiting for the condition on persistentvolumeclaims/test-pvc
... Test PVC unable to bind on default storage class
```

If using Kind, try to [restart the container](#running-out-of-resources). Otherwise,
ensure that PVCs (Persistent Volume Claims) can be allocated for the cluster's default
storage class.

## Release Fails

If a release is triggered, but then fails, check the logs of the pods on the managed
namespace (e.g. `managed-ns2`).

List the pods and look for ones with status `Error`:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n managed-ns2
```

Check the logs of the pods with status `Error`:

```bash
kubectl logs -n managed-ns2 managed-7lxdn-push-snapshot-pod
```

Compare the logs to the [common release issues](#common-release-issues) below.

Once you addressed the issue, create a PR and merge it, or directly push a change to the
main branch, so that the on-push pipeline is triggered.

### Common Release Issues

The logs contain statements similar to this:

```bash
++ jq -r .containerImage
parse error: Unfinished string at EOF at line 2, column 0
```

**Solution**: Verify that you provided a value to the `repository` field inside the
[rpa.yaml file](../test/resources/demo-users/user/managed-ns2/rpa.yaml).

Complete the value and redeploy the manifest:

```bash
kubectl apply -k ./test/resources/demo-users/user/managed-ns2
```

The logs contain statements similar to this:

```bash
Error: PUT https://quay.io/...: unexpected status code 400 Bad Request: <html>
<head><title>400 Bad Request</title></head>
<body>
<center><h1>400 Bad Request</h1></center>
</body>
</html>

main.go:74: error during command execution: PUT https://quay.io/...: unexpected status code 400 Bad Request: <html>
<head><title>400 Bad Request</title></head>
<body>
<center><h1>400 Bad Request</h1></center>
</body>
</html>
```

**Solution**: verify that you
[created the registry secret](./quay.md#configuring-a-push-secret-for-the-release-pipeline)
also for the managed namespace.

Commit message:

doc: mention the specific pod for which pac logs should be collected
The pac namespace includes multiple pods. mention the specific one that
should be checked when troubleshooting.

Signed-off-by: Yftach Herzog <yherzog@redhat.com>

docs/troubleshooting.md, after:

Troubleshooting Common Issues
===

<!-- toc -->

- [Using Podman with Kind while also having Docker Installed](#using-podman-with-kind-while-also-having-docker-installed)
- [Unknown Field "replacements"](#unknown-field-replacements)
- [PR changes are not Triggering Pipelines](#pr-changes-are-not-triggering-pipelines)
- [Setup Scripts Fail or Pipeline Execution Stuck or Fails](#setup-scripts-fail-or-pipeline-execution-stuck-or-fails)
  * [Running out of Resources](#running-out-of-resources)
  * [Unable to Bind PVCs](#unable-to-bind-pvcs)
  * [Release Fails](#release-fails)
    + [Common Release Issues](#common-release-issues)

<!-- tocstop -->

# Using Podman with Kind while also having Docker Installed

If you have docker installed, Kind will try to use it by default, so if you want
it to use Podman, you can do that by creating the cluster with the following command:

```bash
KIND_EXPERIMENTAL_PROVIDER=podman kind create cluster --name konflux --config kind-config.yaml
```

# Unknown Field "replacements"

If you get the following error: `error: json: unknown field "replacements"`, while
executing any of the setup scripts, you will need to update your `kubectl`.

# PR changes are not Triggering Pipelines

Follow this procedure if you create a PR or make changes to a PR and a pipeline is not
triggered:

1. Confirm that events were logged to the smee channel. if not, verify your steps for
   setting up the GitHub app and installing the app to your fork repository.

2. Confirm that events are being relayed by the smee client: List the pods under the
   `smee-client` namespace and check the logs of the pod on the namespace. Those should
   have mentions of the channel events being forwarded to pipelines-as-code.

```bash
kubectl get pods -n smee-client
kubectl logs -n smee-client gosmee-client-<some-id>
```

3. If the pod is not there or the logs do not include the mentioned entries, confirm you
   properly set the **smee channel** on the smee-client manifest and that you deploy the
   manifest to your cluster.

```bash
kubectl delete -f ./smee/smee-client.yaml
<fix the manifests>
kubectl create -f ./smee/smee-client.yaml
```

**Note:** if the host machine goes to sleep mode, the smee client might stop responding
to events on the smee channel, once the host is up again. This can be addressed by
deleting the client pod and waiting for it to be recreated:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n smee-client
kubectl delete pods -n smee-client gosmee-client-<some-id>
```

4. Check the pipelines-as-code **controller** logs to see that events are being properly
   linked to the Repository resource. If you see log entries mentioning a repository
   resource cannot be found, compare the repository mentioned on the logs to the one
   deployed when creating the application and component resources. Fix the Repository
   resource manifest and redeploy it.

   **Note:** this should only be relevant if the application was onboarded manually
   (i.e. not using the Konflux UI).

```bash
kubectl get pods -n pipelines-as-code
kubectl logs -n pipelines-as-code pipelines-as-code-controller-<some-id>
<fix the manifests>
kubectl apply -f ./test/resources/demo-users/user/ns2/application-and-component.yaml
```

5. If the pipelines-as-code logs mention secret `pipelines-as-code-secret` is
   missing/malformed, make sure you created the secret for the GitHub app, providing
   values for fields `github-private-key`, `github-application-id` and `webhook.secret`
   for the app your created. If the secret needs to be fixed, delete it (see command
   below) and deploy it once more based on the Pipelines as Code
   [instructions](../README.md#enable-pipelines-triggering-via-webhooks).

```bash
kubectl delete secret pipelines-as-code-secret -n pipelines-as-code
```

6. On the PR page, type `/retest` on the comment box and post the comment. Observe the
   behavior once more.

# Setup Scripts Fail or Pipeline Execution Stuck or Fails

## Running out of Resources

If setup scripts fail or pipelines are stuck or tend to fail at relatively random
stages, it might be that the cluster is running out of resources.

That could be:

* Open files limit.
* Open threads limit.
* Cluster running out of memory.

The symptoms may include:

* Setup scripts fail.
* Pipelines are triggered, but seem stuck and listing the pods on the user namespace
  (e.g. running `kubectl get pods -n user-ns2`) shows pods stuck in pending for a long
  time.
* Pipelines fail at inconsistent stages.

For mitigation steps, consult the notes at the top of the
[cluster setup instructions](../README.md#bootstrapping-the-cluster).

As last resort, you could restart the container running the cluster node. If you do
that, you'd have to, once more, **increase the PID limit** for that container as
explained in the [cluster setup instructions](../README.md#bootstrapping-the-cluster).

To restart the container (if using Docker, replace `podman` with `docker`):

```bash
podman restart konflux-control-plane
```

**Note:** It might take a few minutes for the UI to become available once the container
is restarted.

## Unable to Bind PVCs
The `deploy-deps.sh` script includes a check to verify whether PVCs on the default
storage class can be bind. If volume claims are unable to be fulfilled, the script will
fail, displaying:

```bash
error: timed out waiting for the condition on persistentvolumeclaims/test-pvc
... Test PVC unable to bind on default storage class
```

If using Kind, try to [restart the container](#running-out-of-resources). Otherwise,
ensure that PVCs (Persistent Volume Claims) can be allocated for the cluster's default
storage class.

## Release Fails

If a release is triggered, but then fails, check the logs of the pods on the managed
namespace (e.g. `managed-ns2`).

List the pods and look for ones with status `Error`:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n managed-ns2
```

Check the logs of the pods with status `Error`:

```bash
kubectl logs -n managed-ns2 managed-7lxdn-push-snapshot-pod
```

Compare the logs to the [common release issues](#common-release-issues) below.

Once you addressed the issue, create a PR and merge it, or directly push a change to the
main branch, so that the on-push pipeline is triggered.

### Common Release Issues

The logs contain statements similar to this:

```bash
++ jq -r .containerImage
parse error: Unfinished string at EOF at line 2, column 0
```

**Solution**: Verify that you provided a value to the `repository` field inside the
[rpa.yaml file](../test/resources/demo-users/user/managed-ns2/rpa.yaml).

Complete the value and redeploy the manifest:

```bash
kubectl apply -k ./test/resources/demo-users/user/managed-ns2
```

The logs contain statements similar to this:

```bash
Error: PUT https://quay.io/...: unexpected status code 400 Bad Request: <html>
<head><title>400 Bad Request</title></head>
<body>
<center><h1>400 Bad Request</h1></center>
</body>
</html>

main.go:74: error during command execution: PUT https://quay.io/...: unexpected status code 400 Bad Request: <html>
<head><title>400 Bad Request</title></head>
<body>
<center><h1>400 Bad Request</h1></center>
</body>
</html>
```

**Solution**: verify that you
[created the registry secret](./quay.md#configuring-a-push-secret-for-the-release-pipeline)
also for the managed namespace.
